Added ingress term in english (#2397)
cncf/glossary: content/en/ingress.md

---
title: Ingress
status: Feedback Appreciated
category: technology
tags: ["fundamental", "", ""]
---

## What it is

An Ingress is an abstraction that helps to manage the traffic from the outside into a [Kubernetes](/kubernetes/) cluster. 
It consists of two elements, the ingress resource, and the ingress controller. 
The ingress resource is just a Kubernetes manifest file that lives along with other manifest files and allows for the configuration of traffic routing. 
The ingress controller is the web server technology that actually performs the routing of the traffic according to the configuration in the ingress resource.

## Problem it addresses

> Traditionally, users access deployed production-grade applications using URLs, typically HTTPS, but whenever the traffic increases, it leads to the need for an increase in the number of replicas of the pod to handle it. The pod is the smallest unit of workload in Kubernetes. It is the object that contains the application. A load balancer is present between the application and the users to handle traffic for a specific service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
My suggestion is to delete this completely as is does not really fit to the rest and it is a bit missleading.

Cloud Native web applications consist of multiple services, where one or more of those need to be accessible over the internet for the users to visit using their browser. 
To make these services user accessible while using Kubernetes to run this application, we need to expose each service of the application to the outside world. 
The most straightforward way would be to use a Load Balancer type of Kubernetes Service. 

> Creating such a Kubernetes Load Balancer Service results in a new component on the underlying infrastructure. This not only introduces new costs and management overhead but also, each newly created Load Balancer has its own external IP address to access it which increases the complexity because as a user we don't want to browse different URLs just to access an application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating such a Kubernetes Load Balancer Service results in a new component on the underlying infrastructure. 
This not only introduces new costs and management overhead but also, each newly created Load Balancer has its own external IP address. 
This leads to a bad user experience because as a user we don't want to browse different URLs just to access an application.
```

Adding some line breaks and rephrasing slightly.

## How it helps

An Ingress resource allows you to configure how traffic is balanced and routed to all the services an application can consist of. 
The ingress controller is a web server that allows for a single entry point through a URL (www.example-url.com) 

> and does the actual routing and balancing based on the URL path (www.example-url.com/path). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and does the actual routing and balancing based on different URL paths (www.example-url.com/path). 
```

An Ingress controller is a component that runs within the cluster and interprets the rules defined in the Ingress resource.
It is up to the users or operators of a Kubernetes cluster to choose a specific Ingress controller from a set of possible technologies. 

> So now, even though if an application consists of multiple services, the user can access it using a single URL. It eliminates the need for numerous load balancers and eases the configuration of firewall and load balancer rules for each service. By centralizing traffic routing and handling configurations, Ingress provides streamlined scalability, optimizes resource utilization, reduces costs, and improves overall manageability for applications in a Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So now, even though if an application consists of multiple services, the user can access it using a single URL. 
This eliminates the need for numerous separate load balancers on the infrastructur level and eases the configuration of firewall and load balancer rules for each service. 
By centralizing traffic routing and handling configurations, Ingress provides streamlined scalability, optimizes resource utilization, reduces costs, and improves overall manageability for applications in a Kubernetes cluster.
```
Adding line breaks

---
title: Ingress
status: Feedback Appreciated
category: technology
tags: ["fundamental", "", ""]
---

## What it is

An Ingress is an abstraction that helps to manage the traffic from the outside into a [Kubernetes](/kubernetes/) cluster. 
It consists of two elements, the ingress resource, and the ingress controller. 

> The ingress resource is just a Kubernetes manifest file that lives along with other manifest files and allows for the configuration of traffic routing. 

Reviewer 2: The term "Kubernetes manifest file" here might be a bit technical for our target audience (assuming knowledge of Kubernetes)

Author: I feel in this case either we can use the term configuration file or just explain Kubernetes manifest file in next line. What you would suggest?

Reviewer 2: I'd rather generalise the ingress concept than have to explain kubernetes

Author: Okay got it, Thanks!

The ingress controller is the web server technology that actually performs the routing of the traffic according to the configuration in the ingress resource.

## Problem it addresses

> Cloud Native web applications consist of multiple services, where one or more of those need to be accessible over the internet for the users to visit using their browser. 

Reviewer 3: We do here: https://glossary.cncf.io/service/

> To make these services user accessible while using [Kubernetes](/kubernetes/) to run this application, we need to expose each service of the application to the outside world. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make these services user accessible while using [Kubernetes](/kubernetes/) to run this application, we need to expose each application service to the outside world.
```

> The most straightforward way would be to use a Load Balancer type of Kubernetes Service. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The most straightforward way would be to use a Kubernetes Load Balancer Service.
```

Creating such a Kubernetes Load Balancer Service results in a new component on the underlying infrastructure. 
This not only introduces new costs and management overhead but also, each newly created Load Balancer has its own external IP address. 
This leads to a bad user experience because as a user we don't want to browse different URLs just to access an application.

## How it helps

An Ingress resource allows you to configure how traffic is balanced and routed to all the services an application can consist of. 
The ingress controller is a web server that allows for a single entry point through a URL (www.example-url.com) and does the actual routing and balancing based on different URL paths (www.example-url.com/path). 
An Ingress controller is a component that runs within the cluster and interprets the rules defined in the Ingress resource.

> It is up to the users or operators of a Kubernetes cluster to choose a specific Ingress controller from a set of possible technologies. 

Reviewer 2: Consider adding a brief note on the other technologies available.

Author: nginx, AWS, GCE are these ingress controllers technologies okay to mention?

> It is up to the operators of the cluster where the web app is running to choose a specific Ingress controller from a set of possible technologies like Nginx, Traefik, HAProxy, etc. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is up to the cluster operators where the web app runs to choose a specific Ingress controller from a set of possible technologies like Nginx, Traefik, HAProxy, etc.
```
